1. Installation
----------------

   To use whizzytex, you nead emacs or xemacs, latex2e, and bash installed.
   Get the source whizzytex.tgz, untar it in some working directory.

gunzip whizzytex-1.0.tgz
tar -xf whizztex-1.0.tar
ls -1 whizzytex

   Then,  the  installation  can be automatic (default or customized), or
   manual.

1.1  Automatic installation
---------------------------

   
   By   default,   all   files   will   be  installed  in  the  directory
   /usr/local/lib/whizzytex/    and   emacs-lisp   code   will   not   be
   byte-compiled. Then, just type:
   
        make all

   This  will  create  a  Makefile.config  file (only if nonexistent) and
   prepared configured version of the files.
   To   customize  the  installation,  to  can  either  edit  and  modify
   Makefile.config manually, or run
   
        make config

   This  will  prompt  the  user  for  choices  and  override the default
   Makefile.config  (which  you can again edit to adjust choices). At the
   end of customization, run make all again.
   Finally, type

        make install

   to install files to their destination.


1.2  Manual installation
-------------------------

  1.2  Manual installation
  
   Since  WhizzyTeX  only  need  three files installed, these can also be
   installed by hand:

   whizzytex.el

       This  should be installed in a directory visible by emacs, so that
       it can be autoloaded, or loaded by hand.
       No default location.

   whizzytex

       This  is  a  bash-shell script that should be executable. There is
       not  reason  to  have it visible from the executabl path, since it
       should not be used but with WhizzyTeX.
       The   variable   whizzytex-command-name  defined  in  whizzytex.el
       contains  its  full  path  (or  just  its name if visible from the
       executable path).
       Default value is /usr/local/lib/whizzytex/bin/whizzytex

   whizzytex.sty

       This  is  a latex2e macros package. There is no reason to put this
       visible  from  LaTeX  path, since it should not be used but with
       WhizzyTeX.
       Variable  variable  PACKAGE defined in whizzytex the full path (or
       just the name if the path is visible from LaTeX.
       Default value is /usr/local/lib/whizzytex/latex/whizzytex.sty
       

1.3 Automatic upgrading
-----------------------


   For  convenience,  the distribution also offers a facility to download
   and upgrade new versions of WhizzyTeX (this requires wget installed).
   All  operations  should  be  performed in the WhizzyTeX top directory,
   i.e.  where you untar whizzytex for the firt time. We assume that have
   a  link  from whizzytex to the current version (which will be maintain
   uptodate by the manager) or user whizzytex-x.xx/Manager instead
   
        make -f whizzytex/Manager upgrade 
        make -f whizzytex/Manager install

   The  command  upgrade  will  successively download the newest version,
   unpack it, copy the configuration of the current version to the newest
   version,  and  bring  the newest version uptodate. The command install
   will install files of the newest version.
   To recover and old version, you may also use the command:
   
        make VERSION=<version> download downgrade install


2.  Using WhizzyTeX
-------------------

  2.1  Quick start
  
   You  should  first  load  the library whizzytex.el or, better, make it
   autoload  by including the following declaration in your Emacs startup
   file (probably is ~/.emacs).

        (autoload 'whizzytex-mode
            "/usr/local/bin/whizzytex/lisp/whizzytex.el"
            "WhizzyTeX, a minor-mode WYSIWIG environment for LaTeX" t)

   (where /usr/local/bin/whizzytex/lisp/whizzytex.el is the exact location
   of \lst"whizzytex.el", according to your installation), or simply,

        (autoload 'whizzytex-mode "whizzytex"
            "WhizzyTeX, a minor-mode WYSIWIG environment for LaTeX" t)

   if  you  have  install  whizzytex.el  in  your  (X)Emacs load-path, or
   adjusted this one accordingly.

   WhizzyTeX  runs  as  a minor mode of emacs to be launched on a LAT[E]X
   emacs buffer. To start it, type:


        ESC x whizzytex-mode

   By  default,  this  should add new bindings so that you can later turn
   mode  on  and  off  with key strokes C-c C-w. This will also add a new
   menu Whizzy in the menu bar call ``the'' menu below.
   When  whizzytex-mode is started for the first time on a new buffer, it
   attempts  to configure buffer local variables automatically by examing
   the content of file, and using default values of global bindings.
   You  may  customize  default  settings globally by running appropriate
   hooks  or locally by inserting appropriate comments in the source file
   ---see the manual below.
   You  may  also  change  the settings interactivelly using the menu, or
   tell  whizzytex-mode  to  prompt  the  user for local customization by
   passing  prefix  argument 4 (using, for instance, key sequence C-u C-c
   C-w).
   

See the documentation for more complete information. 
