1. Installation
----------------

   To use whizzytex, you nead emacs or xemacs, latex2e, and bash installed.
   Get the source whizzytex.tgz, untar it in some working directory.

gunzip whizzytex-1.0.tgz
tar -xf whizztex-1.0.tar
ls -1 whizzytex

   Then, the installation can be automatic, or manual.

1.1  Automatic installation
---------------------------

   By  default, librairies will be installed in /usr/local/lib/whizzytex/
   and in Emacs site-lisp library. 

./configure  

   produces Makefile.config, which you can edit and modify. 

   To produced configured copies of the source and install them, type

make all
make install


1.2  Manual installation
-------------------------

  1.2  Manual installation
  
   Since  WhizzyTeX  only  need  three files installed, these can also be
   installed by hand:

   whizzytex.el

       This  should be installed in a directory visible by emacs, so that
       it can be autoloaded, or loaded by hand.
       No default location.

   whizzytex

       This  is  a  bash-shell script that should be executable. There is
       not  reason  to  have it visible from the executabl path, since it
       should not be used but with WhizzyTeX.
       The   variable   whizzytex-command-name  defined  in  whizzytex.el
       contains  its  full  path  (or  just  its name if visible from the
       executable path).
       Default value is /usr/local/lib/whizzytex/whizzytex

   whizzytex.sty

       This  is  a latex2e macros package. There is no reason to put this
       visible  from  LaTeX  path, since it should not be used but with
       WhizzyTeX.
       Variable  variable  PACKAGE defined in whizzytex the full path (or
       just the name if the path is visible from LaTeX.
       Default value is /usr/local/lib/whizzytex/whizzytex.sty
       

1.3 Automatic upgrading
-----------------------

  1.3  Automatic upgrading

      For  convenience,  the distribution also offers a facility to download
      and upgrade to new versions. This requires wget installed.
      To benefit from this service you must first execute (once for all)   

   make install.pkg

      This  will  install create a link Makefile in your parent directory to
      the file whizzytex/Makefile.pkg. This assumes that you have not rename
      the   parent   directory   after  installation,  which  should  remain
      whizzytex.
      If  you  wish to edit this file, you should copy it instead of
      creating a  link,  since upadtes may update (hence override) the file
      whizzytex/Makefile.pkg itself.

      Then, from the parent directory, you can type

   make update
   make unpack
   make build
   make install

      Respectively,  to  check  for newer version and download if nevessary,
      unpack  the newest version, build the current version, and install the
      current version
      You can also use

   make upgrade

        as a show-cut for "make update unpack build"

   make VERSION=xxx restore

        to restore (unpack only) version xxx

   make save-version

        To  pack  current  version in case, you lost its original tar file,
        which  is recommended before an updare, in case you want to restore 
        the old version later.

      The  upgrading  may ask questions to the users. To be fully automatic,
      you   can  also  pass  the  option  FORCE=true,  which  will  let  the
      installation make (hopefully reasonable) choices in your place.


2.  Using WhizzyTeX
-------------------

  2.1  Quit start
  
   WhizzyTeX  runs  as  a minor mode of emacs to be launched on a LaTeX
   emacs  buffer.  One  the  library  whizzytex.el  has  been loaded (you
   propbably  want  to  declare  it  autoload in your Emacs startup file)
   simply type
                             
ESC-X whizzytex-mode                  

   By  default,  this  should add new bindings so that you can later turn
   mode on and off with key strokes C-C C-W. 

   When  whizzytex-mode is started for the first time on a new buffer, it
   may  prompt  for  confirmation  of  default  settings,  which  you may
   confirm,  change  interactively,  or  change  permanenty  by inserting
   comments in the source file (see manual for details).

   Once  in  whizzytex-mode,  just  type in as usual. WhizzyTeX should do
   everything  automatically,  refresshing  the presentation as you type.

   Additionally,  it  should  put  a  gray overlay outside of the current
   slice  (the  region  of  your  buffer that is under focus). Whenever a
   Latex  error  occors,  it will also attempt to localize the error in
   the source buffer and mark it with a yellow overlay.

   Furthermore,  when  an  error is persistent for several slices or some
   amount  of  time,  it will pop up its interaction-buffer with a log of
   the error (this option can be turn on or off from the Whizzy menu).
   

See the documentation for more information
